# Setting Up and Using Jupyter Notebook
## Interacting With the Anaconda Environment
Anaconda provides a complete Python environment for you - everything from an installation of Python itself to an integrated development environment (IDE) where you can write code easily. Anaconda provides two ways to access its features: a GUI (graphical user interface) and a CLI (command line interface). I'm not sure how familiar you are with various acronyms, so I'll describe them briefly. A GUI is what you're likely more familiar with. Your desktop and Finder are both GUI applications. A CLI is more common within the development world - Terminal is a CLI tool. For purposes of speed, we'll focus on the GUI, but it may be worth learning about the CLI later on. A CLI tends to provide more options, since it's generally less effort for the creators of the software to create CLI commands than GUI layouts. Anaconda's GUI is called Anaconda Navigator. You can find it with Spotlight. Crack that open now.

## Spyder
Spyder is an integrated development environment (IDE) specifically for scientific Python applications. An IDE is software that tries to put everything you need for software development into one nice package. It provides a place to write code, a debugger, tools to interact with databases directly, and more. Its purpose is to make your life as simple as possible and to enable you to do things quickly and correctly. We'll go over things within the context of Spyder for working on our projects.

In Navigator, click "Launch" under Spyder. Once it's open, go to Projects -> New Project in the top menu. Check "Existing directory", and navigate to the directory where you cloned this from Github. After clicking Ok, you should see the Project Explorer on the left, where you can find all the files in this folder. To make sure everything is working correctly, go ahead and right click the file `hello_world.py` under `02_jupyter_notbook`, and select `Run`. On the bottom right, you should see Spyder execute a command to run the file, and "Hello world!" appear. Nicely done. You've run your first Python program in an IDE!

My understanding of how Spyder fits into the equation is that it won't necessarily be in the spotlight for your data science work. It's more a place for you to run and test your code to make sure the mechanics of programming are on point before putting your code into Jupyter. This way, any struggles you run into on the purely code side won't make your scientific notes messy. Once you've got your code running and working in Spyder, drop it into Jupyter for your analysis. However, this is just my understanding of its purpose. I had difficulty finding more details about Spyder in this regard.

## Jupyter Notebook
Jupyter Notebook is just that: a notebook. It's meant for you to juxtapose notes with code, the ideal combination of science and data. It provides a place for you to write in raw text, markdown text (which we'll cover shortly), Python code, and your code's output. The funny part is that Jupyter is actually a webserver. You interact with Jupyter Notebook via your browser, rather than some local desktop software. However, Jupyter is still run locally on your desktop. The creators just opted to use the browser as their interface rather than create their own. That said, let's run it.
